.ds p \&\s-1XDelta\s0
.if n .ds - \%--
.if t .ds - \(em
.if !\n(.g \{\
.	if !\w|\*(lq| \{\
.		ds lq ``
.		if \w'\(lq' .ds lq "\(lq
.	\}
.	if !\w|\*(rq| \{\
.		ds rq ''
.		if \w'\(rq' .ds rq "\(rq
.	\}
.\}
.de PE
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 2
.nf
.IP
..
.de EP
.fi
.PP
.sp \\n()Pu
..
.TH XDelta 1
.SH NAME
xdelta \- Invoke XDelta
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdelta
.I subcommand
[
.IR option ".\|.\|.
] [
.IR operand .\|.\|.
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
XDelta provides the ability to generate deltas between a pair of files
and later apply those deltas.  It operates similar to the
.B diff
and
.B patch
commands, but works on binary files and does not produce a human
readable output.
.PP
XDelta has two subcommands, delta and patch.  Delta accepts two files
and produces a delta, while patch accepts one original file and a
delta and produces the other file.  As opposed to the the diff(1)
format, which can usually be reversed, these deltas are one way.

.SS Subcommands
Each subcommand will be detailed seperately.  In general, any input
file may be compressed with
.IR gzip (1)
and XDelta will automatically uncompress it into a temporary location
before examining the file.  This temporary location is either the
value of the
.ir TMPDIR
environment variable, if set, or "/tmp".
Unless turned off, XDelta always verifies the integrity of
reconstructed files with MD5 checksums.  By default, XDelta compresses
constructed deltas, but this feature may be turned off.

.SS Delta
The delta subcommand has the following synopsis:

.B xdelta
.I delta
[
.IR option ".\|.\|.
]
.IR from
.IR to
[
.IR patch
]

Computes a delta from
.IR from
to
.IR to
and writes it to
.IR patch
or the standard output if
.IR patch
is omitted or is named "-".

.SS Patch
The patch subcommand has the following synopsis:

.B xdelta
.I patch
[
.IR option ".\|.\|.
]
.IR patch
[
.IR from
[
.IR to
]]

Applies
.IR patch
to
.IR from.
If from was omitted, XDelta attempts to use the file with the original
from file name.
The from file must be identical to the one used to create the delta.
Its MD5 checksum is used to verify this condition.  The constructed
file will be written to
.IR to
unless to is named "-" or the original to file name if
.IR to
is omitted.

.SS Options

.IP -0..9
Set the zlib compression level.  Zero indicates no compression.  Nine
indicates maximum compression.

.IP -h
Print a short help message and exit.

.IP -v
Print the XDelta version number and exit.

.IP -V
Verbose.  Prints a bit of extra information.

.IP -n
No verify.  Turns off MD5 checksum verification of the input and
output files.

.IP -m=size
Set an upper bound on the size of an in-memory page cache.

.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Josh MacDonald
.br
.\" $Format: "Manual Page Revision: $Revision$; Release Date: $ProjectDate$."$
Manual Page Revision: 1.2; Release Date: Mon, 11 Jun 2001 03:39:53 -0700.
.br
Copyright \(co 1997, 1998
